---
draft: true


date: 2024-04-28
slug: recsys-challenge-2024-modeling

categories:
  - RecSys Challenge 2024
  - Recommendation Systems
  - Modeling 
  - Data Science
  - Deep Learning Recommendation Models
authors:
  - sulmank
---
# RecSys Challenge 2024: Modeling
!!! abstract "Purpose"
    This article will cover model selection in the RecSys Challenge 2024. The content will be structured into the following sections:

    - News RecSys
    - Model Selection

    
    For more in-depth analysis, please check out the [notebook](https://github.com/SulmanK/2024-Recsys-Challenge/blob/main/2024_Recsys_Challenge_EDA.ipynb)!

    <!-- more -->




!!! info "About"
    This year's challenge focuses on online news recommendation, addressing both the technical and normative challenges inherent in designing effective and responsible recommender systems for news publishing. The challenge will delve into the unique aspects of news recommendation, including modeling user preferences based on implicit behavior, accounting for the influence of the news agenda on user interests, and managing the rapid decay of news items. Furthermore, our challenge embraces the normative complexities, involving investigating the effects of recommender systems on the news flow and whether they resonate with editorial values. [[1]](https://recsys.eb.dk/)

!!! info "Challenge Task"
    The Ekstra Bladet RecSys Challenge aims to predict which article a user will click on from a list of articles that were seen during a specific impression. Utilizing the user's click history, session details (like time and device used), and personal metadata (including gender and age), along with a list of candidate news articles listed in an impression log, the challenge's objective is to rank the candidate articles based on the user's personal preferences. This involves developing models that encapsulate both the users and the articles through their content and the users' interests. The models are to estimate the likelihood of a user clicking on each article by evaluating the compatibility between the article's content and the user's preferences. The articles are ranked based on these likelihood scores, and the precision of these rankings is measured against the actual selections made by users. [[1]](https://recsys.eb.dk/)

!!! info note "Dataset Information"
    The Ekstra Bladet News Recommendation Dataset (EB-NeRD) was created to support advancements in news recommendation research. It was collected from user behavior logs at Ekstra Bladet. We collected behavior logs from active users during the 6 weeks from April 27 to June 8, 2023. This timeframe was selected to avoid major events, e.g., holidays or elections, that could trigger atypical behavior at Ekstra Bladet. The active users were defined as users who had at least 5 and at most 1,000 news click records in a three-week period from May 18 to June 8, 2023. To protect user privacy, every user was delinked from the production system when securely hashed into an anonymized ID using one-time salt mapping. Alongside, we provide Danish news articles published by Ekstra Bladet. Each article is enriched with textual context features such as title, abstract, body, categories, among others. Furthermore, we provide features that have been generated by proprietary models, including topics, named entity recognition (NER), and article embeddings. [[2]](https://recsys.eb.dk/dataset/)

    For more information on the [dataset](https://recsys.eb.dk/dataset/).